APPENDIX A
Command Reference

The commands of Speak-Out fall into two groups.  The first group
consists of those that can only be used the first time
SPEAKOUT.COM is loaded each session.  This group includes the
speech output port assignment such as COM1 or LPT3 and the serial
parameters including baud rate, parity, stop bits, and data bits. 
The second, larger group contains parameters which can be issued
anytime on the SPEAKOUT.COM command line.

We'll refer to the first group of commands as "one-time start-up
parameters."  These parameters always begin with an exclamation
point (!).

SPEAKOUT.COM Start-up Parameters:

One of the following two parameters (/!Cn or /!Ln) must be
present on the command line when the SPEAKOUT.COM driver is first
loaded.

/!Cn n = 1 - 4 COM Port Assignment
     This specifies which COM port Speak-Out is connected to.

/!Ln n = 1 - 4 LPT Port Assignment
     This specifies which LPT port Speak-Out is connected to.

/!Bn (baud rate assignment)
     Default is 9600 BAUD
     /!B3 = 300 baud
     /!B1 = 1200 baud
     /!B2 = 2400 baud
     /!B4 = 4800 baud
     /!B9 = 9600 baud

/!Dn (n=7-8) Sets data bits to value specified default is 8 data
bits

/!Pn (n=N, E, O) N=none, E=even, O=odd
     Sets parity to value specified
     default is no parity

/!Sn (n=1-2) Sets stop bits to value specified
     default is 1 stop bit

/!In (IRQ setting)
     If your serial port uses a non-standard IRQ setting you can
     specify the actual IRQ with this command.

/!SBxn enables Sounding Board emulation.
     X can be either C or L.  If X is C Speak-Out will emulate
     the Sounding Board on the serial port specified by n which
     can be 1, 2, 3, or 4.  If X is L then Speak-Out will emulate
     the Sounding Board on the parallel port specified by n which
     can be 1, 2, 3, or 4.  The default is /!SBL3.  This means
     the SPEAKOUT.COM driver will emulate the Sounding Board on
     LPT3 by default.  If you wish to completely disable the
     Sounding Board emulation you can specify the command /!SB0.

/!X0 disable indexing
     This can be used if you wish to tell the SPEAKOUT.COM driver
     not to use the indexing feature of Speak-Out.  If you have
     connected Speak-Out to a parallel port, the indexing feature
     will already be disabled.

/!Wn MicroSoft serial port compatibility
     (n ranges from 0 to 2)

     /!W0 --> This will disable the auto clearing feature.

     /!W1 --> (default) This will disable the
          current port and the corresponding port when Windows is
          entered.  It will restore the port when Windows has
          exited.

     /!W2 --> This will only auto clear and
          restore the current serial port.  The corresponding
          port will be left alone.  This would be used if the
          corresponding serial port is using a different IRQ than
          the current port.

SPEAKOUT.COM Anytime Parameters:

The next group of commands represent the complete software
features of Speak-Out.  This group, unlike the start-up
parameters given earlier, can be used anytime during a session
with Speak-Out.  Also, unlike the first group, most of the
software features can be invoked by use of SPEAKOUT.COM command
line, and additionally through the use of CTRL-E software
sequences.  Finally, note that the software features do not allow
the exclamation point (!) within the command line parameter since
these are not one time start-up parameters.  They can be used
over and over.

Software Features:

/An  CTRL-E-An n = 0-1, or +, - (0 off/1 on)
     Acronyms - Default is 0
     If a word is in all capital letters, it will be spelled out.
          IBM -> I B M

/AxC CTRL-EAxC clears alarm x (x=A-Z)

/A*C CTRL-EA*C clears All alarms

/A? CTRL-EA? speaks status of all alarms

/AxHHMM CTRL-EAXHHMM sets alarm x to time specified

/AxHHMM"message"
CTRL-EAXHHMM"message"
     sets alarm x to time specified and will speak message

/AxHHMMMMDD CTRL-EAXHHMMMMDD
     sets alarm x to time and day specified

/AxHHMMMMDD"message"
CTRL-EAXHHMMMMDD"message"
     sets alarm x to the time and day specified and will speak
     message

/AxHHMMMMDDYY CTRL-EAXHHMMMMDDYY
     sets alarm x to time and day specified

/AxHHMMMMDDYY"message"
CTRL-EAXHHMMMMDDYY"message"
     sets alarm x to time and day specified and will speak
     message

Note that the length for the user specified message is seventy-
nine characters.  If you exceed this Speak-Out will say "alarm
message too large" and abort the command.

/Bn  CTRL-EBn n = 0-2 Bell
     0 = low
     1 = medium
     2 = high
     No default

/Cn  CTRL-ECn n = 0 - 3, or +, -
     Capitalization Alert
     Default is 0
     0 Capitalization alert is off.
     1 Speak-Out emits low tone before words with first letter
capitalized, medium tone before words in all caps, and high tone
before words of mixed capitalization.
     2 Speak-Out says "CAP" before words with the first letter
capitalized, "CAP CAP" before words in all upper case, and "CAP
CAP CAP" before words of mixed capitalization.
     3 Speak-Out speaks word in normal pitch if no letters are
capitalized, higher pitch if first letter is capitalized, higher
pitch yet if word is all caps, and highest pitch if word is mixed
upper and lower case letters.

/Dn  CTRL-EDn n = 0-2 Date/Time
     0 = date
     1 = time
     2 = both date and time
     No default

/DT -> sets Speak-Out date and time to the
     current PC date and time.

/En  n = file specification Exception Dictionary
     *Note that when SPEAKOUT.COM is first loaded it will look
     for a dictionary named "VE.DIC" in the current directory.  n
     can be any legal path.  For example:

          /EC:\WORK\FILES\WP.DIC

would load the dictionary "WP.DIC" which is in the FILES
directory which is in the WORK directory which is on the C:
drive.

/EC  This will clear the current exception dictionary loaded in
     Speak-Out.

/Fn  CTRL-EFn n = 0 - 1, or +,- (0 off/1 on) Format Alert
     Default is 0
     If active, a buzz will be produced for each of the following
     conditions:
     - The line begins with at least one space
     - There are three or more spaces within a line
     Note: The above two cases cause two different sounds

/Hn  CTRL-EHn n = 0-1, + or - (0 off/1 on)
     Hyperscan - Default is 0
     Skips words with three or fewer letters.

/In  CTRL-EIn n=0-9, + or - Sentence delay
     Default is 1
     This contains the amount of delay between each sentence.

/Kn  n = 0 - 3, or D-E Keyboard Hot keys
     0 =  no hot keys
     1 =  hot keys on numeric keypad
     2 =  hot keys on function keys
     3 =  return hot keys to last setting (after
          disabling with k0)
     D completely disable all hot keys
     E completely re-enable all hot keys
     Default is 2 (function keys / disabled)

/Kn[x] is Keyboard Hot key Definition
     n=which hot key to define, x=keystroke for the hot key. 
     Notice there is no CTRL-E equivalent.  See Appendix B: "Hot
     Key Reference" for a complete list of hot key names and
     possible keystrokes.

/Mn  CTRL-EMn n = n, s, m, a, + or -
     Marks of punctuation
     n = none
     s = some
     m = most
     a = all
     Default is s

/Nn  CTRL-ENn n = 0-1, or +, - (0 off/1 on)
     Numbers
     Default is 1
     The maximum number which can be pronounce by Speak-Out is
     999,999,999,999,999.  Numbers are read as time if they are
     in the format nn:nn. Numbers are read as money if they      take
     the form $nn or $nn.nn.

/Pn  CTRL-EPn n = 0 - 9, or +, - Pitch
     Default is 3

/Rn  CTRL-ERn n = 0-9, or +, - Rate
     Default is 5

/Sn  CTRL-ESn n = 0-1, or +, - (0 off/1 on)
     Spell
     Default is 0
     If Spell Mode is on, a higher pitch is used to distinguish
     between upper and lower case letters.

/Tn  CTRL-ETn n = a-z, or +, - Tone
     Default is i

/Txx CTRL-ETXX sets timer to specified value
     xx (xx=00-99).  00 will clear timer. All other values will
     set to the specified minutes.

/U uninstalls the driver

/Vn  CTRL-EVn n = 0-9, or +, - Volume
     Default is 9

/Wn  CTRL-EWn n=0-9, + or - Word delay
     Default is 1
     This contains the amount of delay between each spoken word.

/Xn  CTRL-EXn n = 0-1, + or - Voice (0 off/1 on)
     Default is 1

/Zn  CTRL-EZn n=0 - 1, + or -
     Alpha/Numeric spell (0 off/1 on)
     Default is 1
     If on, words which contain both letters and numbers will be
     spelled completely.  Otherwise with this feature off, the   
     word will be pronounced.

/C? displays possible serial port conflicts.
     If your computer has more than two serial ports and you have
     problems running Speak-Out on a serial port try this
     parameter.

/? - displays all speak-out command-line
     parameters

Other Features:

CTRL-X    Momentary Silence
     *Note that this command would usually be sent to the Speak-
     Out by a screen reader, or some other speech program.  When
     received by Speak-Out speech will immediately be stopped,
     and the output buffer will be cleared.

; Suppress Messages
     *Note that this parameter can only be used on the
     SPEAKOUT.COM command line.  Place this character at the very
     end of the line.  It will suppress the display of Speak-Out
     parameters messages.

CTRL-EE0 disable user aux. dictionary

CTRL-EE1 enable user aux. dictionary

CTRL-EE2 load user aux. dictionary.
     Load format is as follows:
      - mispronounced word (a-z and ') only followed by enter
      - misspelled word (anything valid) followed by enter
          .
          .
     enter
     either ; (semi-colon) or CTRL-Z

If the CTRL-Z is used Speak-Out will say "dictionary loaded" and
if the semi-colon is used it will not.

CTRL-EE8 use standard welcome message

CTRL-EE9 load new welcome message.  After the command, all
characters up to the cr will be used as the new welcome message. 
This message can be up to ninety-nine characters long.  If you
enter a message longer than this Speak-Out will say "Welcome
message too large" and keep the current welcome message.  Speak-
Out commands can also be part of the startup message.  For
example, the default message is:

     Speak-Out ready. CTRL-EC?

CTRL-ED9 set time & date.  use the following format after the
command:
          MMDDYYDHHMM
           - MM-month 01-12
           - DD-day 01-31
           - YY-year 00-99 (1991-2090)
           - D-day of week (0-sun -> 7-sat)
           - HH-hour 00-23
           - MM-minutes 01-59

CTRL-EC? speaks battery charging status:
               -) not charging
               -) trickle charging
               -) rapid charging

RELOAD.COM Parameters:

There is only one command line parameter for RELOAD.COM.

/!Cx      (specifies the COM port Speak-Out is connected to)

Before you can execute the RELOAD utility you must switch the
reload switch to the reload position.  Once the switch has been
set you can issue the command:

     RELOAD /!C1

Assuming Speak-Out is connected to COM1.  This will take the file
RELOAD.HEX and send it to Speak-Out.  During the upload you will
hear the computer give a tone.  Assuming the upload was
successful Speak-Out will speak a message and tell you to switch
the reload switch to the normal position.  You are now ready to
use the latest software with your Speak-Out.
                             


Note: one thing omitted was that the indexing sequence is CTRL-E, followed by left bracket, followed by a binary number 0-255.
